PRACTICAL – 8 

Aim: Advanced GIS Operations 1: Nearest Neighbor Analysis,
	 Sampling Raster Data using Points or Polygons, Interpolating Point Data. 

Step 1 – Add the following vector layer. 

Step 2 – Add a delimited text layer. Set the following parameters and click OK. 

Step 3 – Vector > Analysis Tools > Distance Matrix. Set the following parameters and hit OK. 

Step 4 – Create a new project. Add the following Raster Layer. 

Step 5 – Add the following Delimited Text Layer. Set the following attributes and click add. 

Step 6 – Select the identify features tool and click on any area to show its features. 

Step 7 – Install the point sampling tool plugin. 

Step 8 – Select the Delimited Text Layer and then Plugin > Analysis > Point Sampling Tool. 
		Set the following parameters and click OK. 

Step 9 – Create a new project. And add a new Raster layer. 

Step 10 – Add the following Vector layer. 

Step 11 – Install Zonal Statistics plugin. 

Step 12 – Raster > Zonal Statistics. Set the following preferences and click OK. 

Step 13 – Open the Attribute Table of the vector layer. 

Step 14 – Select the identify features tool and click to any area to see its features. 

Step 15 – Open the Properties panel of the vector layer and set the following attributes then click apply. 

Step 16 – Create a new project. Add the following Vector Layer. 

Step 17 – Add the following .shp file. 

Step 18 – Click anywhere with the identify features tool on to find out the features of that region. 

Step 19 Install Interpolation plugin.

Step 20 – Raster > Interpolation. Set the following parameters and click OK. 

Step 21 Raster > Extraction > Clipper. Set the following parameters and click OK.  

Step 22 Raster > Extraction > Contour. Set the following attributes and click OK. 

Step 23 Open the properties of the contour layer. Go to the labels tab,
		 set the following attributes and then click Apply. 

Step 24 Open the properties of the clipped layer. Set the following attributes and hit Apply. 



